The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Aldine Readers: A First Reader, by Frank
E. Spaulding

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The Aldine Readers: A First Reader

Author: Frank E. Spaulding
        Catherine T. Bryce

Illustrator: Margaret Ely Webb

Release Date: May 12, 2021 [eBook #65323]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Richard Tonsing, hekula03, and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This book was
             produced from images made available by the HathiTrust Digital
             Library.)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE ALDINE READERS: A FIRST
READER ***




                             A FIRST READER


[Illustration]




                          _THE ALDINE READERS_

[Illustration]

                             A FIRST READER


                                   By
                           Frank E. Spaulding
             Superintendent of Schools, Minneapolis, Minn.

                                  and

                           Catherine T. Bryce
        Assistant Superintendent of Schools, Minneapolis, Minn.

[Illustration]

                         With Illustrations by
                           Margaret Ely Webb

                                NEW YORK
                      NEWSON & COMPANY, PUBLISHERS




                                                   _Copyright, 1906, by_
                                                 NEWSON AND COMPANY


                                                   _All rights reserved_


                                1648–13


The authors and publishers desire to acknowledge their obligation to MR.
NATHANIEL L. BERRY, Supervisor of Drawing in the Public Schools of
Newton, Massachusetts, for valuable assistance in planning and arranging
the illustrations in this book.




                              INTRODUCTION


This First Reader continues the interesting exercises of the Aldine
Primer—the rhymes and stories, the dramatizations and pictures—which
make the child’s efforts to master the art of reading both delightful
and surprisingly successful. The content is concrete, alive and full of
action. The joys of happy childhood at play in the open—with the birds,
the animals, the flowers, the wind, the snow and the rain—the joys of
childhood’s imagination, are presented in the language of childhood and
from the child’s point of view. The child finds here none of the
drudgery—to him quite meaningless—so often associated with the
disagreeable task of learning how to read; the child reads from the very
first page—he has been reading all through the Primer—reads with delight
and real understanding, reads the thoughts and feels the pleasures of
childhood. Hence the not uncommon occurrence of a child’s suddenly
discovering in surprise that he has learned how to read—that he can
read—that he is reading—and that he likes to read!

But there is no magic about the Aldine method, if it can be called a
method. Like the marvellous modern achievements of applied science, its
success depends upon the simple principle of understanding and
utilizing, instead of ignoring and antagonizing, nature. The child’s
nature furnishes the key, the sure guide to all the method there is in
Aldine reading.

The initial stock of about one hundred “sight words,” which the reading
of the Primer has furnished, is increased gradually. At first most of
the new words are easily acquired, as were those of the Primer, through
the memorizing of simple and interesting rhymes. Such rhymes occur on
pages 3, 6, 11, 15, 17, 25, 28, 33, 37, 47, 55, 75. But for the
development of the power and the habit of independent mastery of new
words by the child reliance is placed on the exercises in phonics, which
should be systematic and constant throughout the book. Just what these
exercises are and just how they are to be carried out to make them most
effective are matters fully explained in the _Teacher’s Manual_,
“Learning to Read.”

No formidable mechanism is involved in the teaching of phonics. The plan
is an entirely simple and natural one. The pupil is shown how and
encouraged from the outset to do quickly, directly and intelligently
what he otherwise learns slowly, indirectly and unconsciously. He is
taught to observe, to analyze and to compare words; he is taught to
apply constantly his growing knowledge of sounds and of letters used to
represent sounds. These exercises are scarcely less interesting to the
child than are the rhymes, stories and dramatizing, for the child
understands what he is doing and why he is doing it, and he feels the
joy of increasing mastery. So rapid and sure is the child’s progress and
growth in independent power that he reads at sight and reads well any
interesting Primer long before he has completed this First Reader. When
this book is completed he can read any properly graded First Reader, in
fact almost anything that he can understand, and he can read it
absolutely at sight with little hesitation and read it with intelligent
expression.

Aldine Reading, as presented in this and in the other books of the
Aldine Series, is vastly more important than any mere method or device
for acquiring mastery of the mechanics of reading—it does lead to that
mastery speedily; it is all-round, rich, sound education for the primary
child; and withal it is a joy to child and teacher, as all primary
education ought to be.




                                CONTENTS


                                                  PAGE

                  WITH THE BIRDS                    1

                  OUT OF DOORS                     23

                      The Wind                     26

                      The Leaves                   28

                      The Birds and the Leaves     30

                      The Snow                     34

                      Little Birdie                38

                      Feeding the Squirrels        40

                      The Squirrels                43

                  IN SUMMER TIME                   45

                      Summer is Coming             47

                      Pussy Willows                48

                      The Pussies                  50

                      Little Violet                52

                      Mother’s Song                56

                      Baby                         58

                      Baby Asleep                  62

                      The New Kite                 66

                      Tom and the Wind             68

                      The Song of the Wind         72

                  WITH FLOWER AND STAR             73

                      The Rose                     75

                      The Beautiful Garden         77

                      The Garden in Winter         80

                      Rose, Daisy, and Lily        82

                      The Spring Time              85

                      Tom and the Birds            86

                      The Star                     88

                      The Dandelion’s Friends      91

                  AT CHRISTMAS-TIDE                95

                      Who Is It?                   97

                      Santa Claus                  98

                      Who is Santa Claus?         100

                      The Night Before Christmas  102

                      The Doll and the Sled       106

                      Christmas Morning           111

                      Playing in the Snow         115

                  IN GARDEN AND MEADOW            119

                      The Little Plant            121

                      Be Glad                     122

                      The Fairy Butterfly         123

                      The Butterfly in the Garden 125

                      The Little Fairy            127

                      The White Lily              131

                      The Caterpillar             134

                      The Dandelion               138

                      The Bee                     140

                      The Busy Bee                142

                      Why the Clover is Sweet     145

                  VOCABULARY                      147




                             With·The·Birds

[Illustration]


[Illustration]

 Fly, little birds, to the tall tree.
 Fly to your nest and little birds three.

[Illustration]

                tall                                three

 Fly, little birds.
 Fly to your nest.
 Fly to the tall tree, little birds.
 Fly to your little birds.
 Fly to your three little birds.

 Your little birds fly.
 Your little birds fly to the tall tree.
 Your little birds fly to the nest.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

 Little birds, fly to your nest.
 Fly to the tall tree.
 Fly to your three little birds.
 Fly to your nest and three little birds.

[Illustration]

 Fly, little birds,
 To the place you love best,
 To the tall tree
 And your dear little nest.

          place                   love                   (n est)
          dear                                            b est

[Illustration]

 Fly, little birds.
 Fly to the tall tree.
 Fly to the place you love best.
 Fly to your dear little nest.

 You love the tall tree, little birds.
 You love your dear little nest.
 You love your three little birds best.

 Your little birds fly to the tall tree.
 Your little birds fly to the nest.
 Your little birds love the tall tree.
 Your little birds love the nest.
 Your dear little birds love you best.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

 The birds are flying.
 They are flying to the tall tree.
 They are flying to the place they love.
 Where are they flying?
 They are flying to the dear little nest.
 They are flying to three little birds.
 They are flying to the birds in the nest.
 They love the tree and the nest.
 They love the little birds best.

[Illustration]

 Fly, little birds.
 Fly to the tall tree.
 Fly to the place you love best.
 Fly to your dear little nest.

 Your nest is in the tall tree.
 Your little birds are in the nest.
 Fly to your nest.
 Fly to your dear little birds.

 Your little birds love the tree.
 Your little birds love the nest.
 They love the nest in the tall tree.
 They love you best.
 You love your nest.
 You love your little birds best.

[Illustration]

 Robin, Robin Redbreast,
 Singing on the bough,
 Come and get your breakfast,
 I will feed you now.

       bough                     Rob in                      will
        get           Red breast        break fast           feed

[Illustration]

 Where are you, Robin Redbreast?
 Come, Robin, come and get your breakfast.
 I will feed you, Robin.
 I will feed you now.

 I see you, Robin, in the tree.
 You are flying to the tall bough.
 You are singing to your little birds.
 They are in the nest in the tall tree.
 The nest is on the bough.
 You love your nest in the tall tree.
 Fly to your dear little nest.

[Illustration]

 Robin Redbreast is singing on the bough.
 Where is Robin’s nest?
 It is in the tall tree.
 Robin’s nest is on the bough.
 He is singing to the little birds.
 The little birds are in the nest.
 Robin wants breakfast.
 He wants breakfast for the little birds.
 Good Robin Redbreast!

                 too                                here

[Illustration]

 Come, Robin Redbreast, come to me.
 I want to feed you.
 Come, here is your breakfast.
 Now you can feed your little birds.
 I want to feed the little birds, too.

 There is a nest in the old oak tree,
             Safe and high,
             Safe and high.
 There are three tiny eggs blue as blue can be,
             Like the sky,
             Like the sky.

[Illustration]

        as              (fl y)             like              eggs
       tiny              sk y             (c old)            high
        oak                                 old              safe

 A nest is in the old oak tree.
 It is a Robin’s nest.
 The nest is safe on a high bough.
 Three tiny eggs are in the nest.
 The eggs are as blue as blue can be.
 They are like the sky.

[Illustration]

 There are three baby birds in the tiny nest,
             Up so high,
             Up so high,
 And the wind rocks the bough where they safely rest,
             Rock-a-bye,
             Rock-a-bye.

[Illustration]

       ba by            (n est)            (g o)            rock s
      safe ly            r est              s o           Rock-a-bye

         (bird)                   soon                    made
        bird ies                   but                  tree-top

[Illustration]

 Robin made a nest in the oak tree.
 There it is high up on the bough.
 Three tiny eggs are in the nest.
 They are as blue as blue can be.
 They are as blue as the sky.
 Soon there will be three baby birds in the tiny nest.

[Illustration]

 The wind will rock the bough.
 But the birds will be safe in the nest.
 And they will like the wind to rock the bough.
 The old birds will sing.
 They will sing to the little birds.

 They will sing,“Rock-a-bye, rock-a-bye.
 Rock-a-bye, birdies, on the tree-top.”

[Illustration]

         (sn ow)                 flowers                  then
          gr ow                                            not


                            THE OLD OAK TREE

 There is the old oak tree.
 See the birds flying to the nest.
 The nest is in the tree.
 Little blue flowers grow under it.
 The tree loves birds and flowers.
 And they love the old oak tree.
 The old oak rocks the birds in the nest.
 The nest is on a high bough.
 The wind blows the bough.
 But the little birds rest there safely.
 The old birds fly in to the nest.
 They feed the little birds.
 Then they fly to the tree-top.
 There they sing and sing.
 “We love you! We love you!”
 The little birds can not fly; they can not sing.
 So they say, “Peep! peep! We love! we love!”
 The little flowers look up to the old tree.
 They can not fly; they can not sing.
 But they, too, love the old oak tree.

[Illustration]




                              Out·of·Doors

[Illustration]


[Illustration]

 Whichever way the wind doth blow
 Some heart is glad to have it so.
 Then blow it east or blow it west,
 The wind that blows—that wind is best.

[Illustration]

          doth                    have                    (at)
       which ever                (s ay)                   th at
          heart                   w ay                    east

      cra dle           (n ow)             down             (t all)
      breaks             h ow              their             f all


                                THE WIND

 How the wind blows!
 The tall trees rock in the wind.
 See the boughs sway up and down.
 Some little birds are in their nest.
 The nest is on a high bough.
 They are glad to have the wind blow.
 Their hearts are glad.
 They like the west wind best.
 It rocks them in their nest.
 They like that.
 They like to rock in the tree-top.
 Sing to the dear little birds.
 Sing a song to the birds in the nest.
 “Rock-a-bye, birdies, on the tree-top.
 When the wind blows, the cradle will rock.
 When the bough breaks, the cradle will fall,
 And down will come rock-a-bye, birdies and all.”
 The nest is the little birds’ cradle.
 It is on a bough in the tree-top.
 It rocks when the wind blows.
 When the bough breaks it falls.
 It falls down, down, away down!
 It falls to the ground.
 And down fall birdies and all.


                               THE LEAVES

 “Come, little leaves,” said the wind one day,
 “Come over the meadows with me and play.”

[Illustration]

         leaves                   said                     one

[Illustration]

 Come, little leaves.
 Come over the meadows.
 Come and play with me, little leaves.
 “Come, little leaves,” said the wind, “come with me.
 Come over the meadows with me.
 Come play with me in the meadows.”
 One day the wind said, “Come, come with me, little leaves.
 I want to play with you.
 Will you play with me?”

        two              could             fl ew             gr ew
        saw              were              bl ew

[Illustration]


                        THE BIRDS AND THE LEAVES

 An old oak tree grew in the meadow.
 Two birds made a nest in it.
 Soon there were three little birds there.
 They could not fly; they could not sing.
 But the old birds loved the little ones.
 The little leaves looked into the nest.
 They saw the little birds.
 The leaves said, “Come and play.”

 The little birds said, “Peep! peep!”
 They wanted to go with the leaves.
 They wanted to fly from their nest.
 But they could not fly.
 Up blew the wind one day.

[Illustration]

 “Come, little leaves,” said he.
 “Come over the meadows with me.”
 The leaves flew away with the wind.

[Illustration]

 They played in the meadow all day.
 The old oak tree said, “Come to me, little leaves.”
 But they did not come.
 “Come! come! come!” said the little birds.
 “We want to play with you.”
 But the leaves could not come.
 They were asleep in the meadow.

[Illustration]

 Come, little birds,
 Stop your play.
 Snow is coming down,
 You must hide away.

                                                          (top)
          hide                    must                    s top

         sum mer                   out                    (s o)
          them                    back                     n o


                                THE SNOW

 All summer the little birds played in the old oak tree.
 They flew in and out.
 They flew round and round.
 They flew from bough to bough.
 They rocked on the high boughs.
 They rested there.
 They played with the little leaves.
 They flew up, up to the blue sky.
 They flew down to see the flowers.
 They flew down under the tree.
 Up to the tree-top they flew again.
 They flew east and west.
 Whichever way they flew, they were glad.

[Illustration]

 One day the wind said, “Come, little birds.
 You must stop your play.
 Fly away from your nest in the tree.
 The little leaves are all asleep.
 The little flowers are all asleep.
 The snow will soon be coming down.
 You must hide away.”

 How the little birds wanted to stay!
 But no, they must fly away.
 The wind said they must fly away.
 And away they flew.
 They flew away over the meadows.
 Will they come back again?

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

 What does little birdie say
     In her nest at peep of day?
 “Let me fly,” says little birdie,
     “Mother, let me fly away.”

 “Birdie, rest a little longer,
     Till the little wings are stronger.”
 So she rests a little longer,
     Then she flies away.

     (oth er)          (s ings)           (g et)            (w ill)
     m oth er           w ings             l et              t ill
    str ong er         l ong er            flies              her

[Illustration]


                             LITTLE BIRDIE

 Little birdie is in her nest.
 She says, “Peep, peep, peep.”
 “What does birdie want?” says mother.
 “I want to fly from the nest.
 Mother, let me fly away.
 Let me fly high over the tree-top.”

[Illustration]

 But the mother says, “No, no, you can not fly.
 Rest in the nest a little longer.
 Soon your wings will be stronger.
 Then you can fly away.
 You can fly over the tree-tops.
 You can fly over the meadows.”

 So birdie will stay in the nest a little longer.
 And when her wings are stronger, she will fly away.

               (c an)                               alone
                r an                               winter


                         FEEDING THE SQUIRRELS

 It was a cold day.
 The ground was covered with snow.
 The cold winds blew.
 The trees were bare.
 It was winter.
 Baby ran out to play.
 He saw three little squirrels.
 They were running over the ground.
 “What can the little squirrels want?” said Baby.
 The squirrels ran to the oak tree.
 “Are you looking for acorns?
 There are no acorns now.
 Stay here, little squirrels.
 I will feed you.”
 Baby ran to mother.
 “Come, mother,” he said.

[Illustration]

 “Come out with me.
 There are three squirrels in the tree.
 They want some acorns.
 We will feed the little squirrels.
 I have some acorns.
 Come, feed the squirrels, mother.”
 Mother ran out with Baby.
 There were the squirrels in the tree.
 “Come, squirrels,” said Baby.
 “Here are some acorns.”
 The squirrels ran to Baby.
 They were glad to see the acorns.
 They ran to get some.
 They covered some with snow.
 Can you tell why?
 Then they ran to the old oak tree.

       (see)            (b are)           (m ade)           (f ast)
       see k             c are            sh ade             l ast

[Illustration]


                             THE SQUIRRELS

 Two squirrels made their nest in the old oak tree.
 All summer they played in the shade.
 They ran up and down the boughs.
 They played hide and seek.

[Illustration]

 In the fall the leaves flew away.
 All the little birds flew away, too.
 They were going away for the winter.
 They were flying away from the snow.
 At last the squirrels are alone.
 Must they leave the old tree, too?
 No, little care they for the snow.
 They have a nest; they have acorns.
 They will be glad all winter.
 Summer will come again.
 Then birds and leaves will come back.




                             In·Summer Time

[Illustration]


[Illustration]


                            SUMMER IS COMING

 Summer is coming! Summer is coming!
     How do you think I know?
 I found some pussy willows,
     So I know it must be so.

 Summer is coming! Summer is coming!
     This I know very well,
 For I found a sweet blue violet,
     And that is how I tell.

      pus sy           wil lows            this            (gr ound)
       sweet           vi o let           (t ell)           f  ound
        do               think             w ell             very


[Illustration]

                             PUSSY WILLOWS

 Summer is coming.
 I know it is.
 How do you think I know?
 To-day I found some pussy willows.
 Pussy willows come to tell us winter is over.
 All winter they were asleep.
 But now they are awake.
 They are peeping out.
 How glad they look!
 They know winter is over.

[Illustration]

 So I know that summer is coming.
 Pussy willows say, “Summer is coming!
 Winter is over!”

 I love the summer.
 And I love the dear little pussy willows.

                                  was


                              THE PUSSIES

 It was a glad spring morning.
 Some little pussies were out playing.
 They were playing beside the old willow tree.
 Two little birds were in the tree.
 They were singing a glad song.
 They were singing, “Spring is come!
 Be glad! Be glad! Be glad!”
 It was a sweet, sweet song.
 It made the boys and girls glad.
 But do you think it made the pussies glad?
 Little cared they for the sweet song!

 They said, “Now we have found some breakfast.
 We will get the little birds.”
 Up into the tree they jumped.
 They ran from bough to bough.
 The little birds saw them.
 They flew away.
 “We can have no breakfast here,” said the pussies.
 “We must look for some other birds.
 We will jump to the ground.”
 But what do you think!
 They could not get away.
 They were growing fast to the tree!
 They were no longer pussies.
 They were pussy willows!

         (f all)                 (gl ad)                (long er)
        c all ed                  h ad                   long ed
          came                    tired                   been

[Illustration]


                             LITTLE VIOLET

 Little Violet was fast asleep.
 She had been asleep all winter.
 All winter she had been sleeping under the snow.

 Blue-bird was flying from tree to tree.
 He flew to the tree over Little Violet.

[Illustration]

 He was singing, “Dear Little Violet, come out, come out!
 Get up! get up!
 Are you not tired of winter?
 Summer is coming! Summer is coming!
 I am tired of winter! Tired of winter!
 I love the summer! I love the summer!
 Come, Little Violet, come up! I will sing to you.”

 Little Violet was tired of winter.
 She was tired of the snow.

 She longed for the summer.
 She longed for the sweet singing of the birds.
 She was so glad when Blue-bird called.
 She awoke. She came out. She grew.
 Blue-bird and Violet were so glad.
 Winter was past; summer was here.

[Illustration]

 Dear little baby, close your eye,
     Close your eye so blue,
 Mother will sing to you, “Rock-a-bye,
     Baby and birdies, too.”
 All little babies should be asleep,
     For the stars are shining through,
 And into the nest of all they peep,
     Babies and birdies, too.

[Illustration]

          close                  (ba by)                (c ould)
          stars                  ba bies                 sh ould
           eye                  shin ing                 through


                             MOTHER’S SONG


 It is night.
 The stars are shining.
 They are shining through the night.
 They are shining into Robin’s nest.
 The baby birds are asleep.
 The baby squirrels are asleep.
 Now the stars peep in at Baby.
 Baby is going to sleep, too.
 She is so tired!
 She has been playing all day.
 She should be asleep now.
 Mother is singing to Baby.
 Baby likes mother’s sweet song.
 I think you will like it, too.
 Here is the song.
         “Rock-a-bye, baby.
         Now go to sleep.
 Mother will sing of little sheep.
 The little sheep run round and round.
 The little sheep jump over the ground.
 They run to the haycock.
 What do they see?
         Little Boy Blue.
         Who is he?
         Rock-a-bye, baby.
         Are you asleep?
 Mother is singing of little sheep.”
 Now mother’s song is over.
 Baby’s blue eyes close.
 She is fast asleep.

       (as)              gave             (h ide)            thank
       h as              bread             s ide             time


                                  BABY

 Baby has been playing in the meadow.
 She has been playing there all day.
 She has been playing hide and seek.
 She likes to hide.
 She likes to seek.
 All day Blue-bird has been singing.
 She has been singing in the meadow.
 Playing and singing, singing and playing!
 What a good time Baby and Blue-bird have had!
 They have been glad all the day long.

[Illustration]

 Blue-bird was singing to her little ones.
 Baby said she was singing to her, too.
 Baby saw Blue-bird’s nest.
 Three little birds were in the nest.
 She gave them some bread for breakfast.
 “Peep! peep! Thank you! thank you!” said the little birds.
 They were glad, but they longed to fly.
 They wanted to fly over the tree-tops.
 Baby found some pussy willows.
 They were growing in the meadow.
 She found a sweet blue violet, too.
 Pussy willows and violet were growing there side by side.
 They peeped at Baby as she came up.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

 Baby gave the violet to her mother.
 “Thank you, my dear,” said mother.
 “I love the sweet violet.
 I love my baby, too.
 Violet tells me summer is coming,
 Summer, and the summer sky, so blue.”

[Illustration]

               n ight                            (sing ing)
               t ight                            (shin ing)
               l ight                            (sleep ing)
               m ight                            (peep ing)
               r ight                            (play ing)
               br ight                           (rock ing)
                                                 (morn ing)


                              BABY ASLEEP

 Baby is tired, so tired.
 She has played all the day long.
 Mother will rock her; Mother will sing her to sleep.
 Rock-a-bye, baby, close your eyes.
 Close your sweet blue eyes, Baby dear.

[Illustration]

 Sleep, my Baby, sleep.
 You are so tired, Baby.
 You have played all day.
 Now you must rest.

 Blue-bird is asleep.
 Little blue-birds are asleep in their nest.
 Pussy willow and Violet are sleeping, too.
 You should sleep, baby.
 You should sleep and rest.
 Rock-a-bye, rock-a-bye, rock-a-bye,
 Close your sweet blue eyes,
 Close your sweet blue eyes, baby dear.

 The little stars are shining.

[Illustration]

 High up in the sky, they are shining through the night.
 They are peeping into Blue-bird’s nest.
 They see the little birds sleeping there.
 They peep in at mother, rocking and singing to baby.

 They want to see baby sleeping, too.
 Baby does not see them.
 Baby’s sweet blue eyes are closed at last.
 Good-night, Baby.

[Illustration]

 Good-night,
 Sleep tight,
 Wake up bright,
 In the morning light,
 To do what’s right,
 With all your might.

         (s ing)                   Tom                     did
         str ing                  kite                    went


                              THE NEW KITE

 Tom has a new kite.
 Who do you think made it?
 Tom made the kite all alone.
 It is a blue kite.
 It has a long string.
 To-day the wind is blowing.
 “I will take my kite to the meadow,” said Tom.
 “I will fly it there.”
 Tom went out with his new kite.
 He ran up and down.
 But the kite did not fly well.
 Soon Tom grew tired.
 “I do not want to play with my kite.
 It does not fly well,” he said.
 “The wind is not strong to-day.
 I think the string should be longer.
 I will go home now.
 I will get a longer string.
 Some day the wind will be stronger.
 I will come again to the meadow.
 I will bring Baby with me.
 I will fly my kite for her.”
 Tom ran home.
 He found a new string.
 It was a good long string.
 In the morning he will go again to the meadow.

       ( at)             (see)           (m other)          (long)
       h at             see ms           br other           a long


                            TOM AND THE WIND

 Tom is Baby’s brother.
 Tom loves Baby.
 He likes to play with her.
 Tom likes to play with the wind, too.
 And the wind seems glad to play with Tom and Baby.
 To-day they were in the meadow.
 All three were playing there.
 They ran up and down.
 How fast they ran!
 The wind blew Tom’s hat away.
 How it flew over the meadow!

[Illustration]

 The wind made the leaves fly round and round.
 They flew high and low.
 They looked like little birds.
 The wind blew them east.
 The wind blew them west.
 They found no place to hide.
 They found no place to rest.

[Illustration]

 Tom made a kite.
 Along came the wind.
 Up went the kite!
 High, high up over the tree-tops it flew!
 Then down, down, down it came.
 Up, up, up, again it went.
 Tom said, “It is flying to the sky.
 It will fly right out of sight.”
 As he said this, he let go the string.
 Away went the kite.
 And away went the wind with it.
 Then Tom and Baby went home.

[Illustration]

                                  loud


                          THE SONG OF THE WIND

 You-oo-oo! I blow! I blow!
 I blow the tall trees.
 I rock the birdies in their nest.
 I sing to the flowers.
 I sing a sweet song to them.
 Winter is coming; snow is coming.
 Sleep, little flowers, sleep.
 Some days I sing a loud song.
 I sing, Come, little snowflakes!
 Cover the cold bare ground.
 “O I am the wind and I come very fast;
 Through the tall trees I blow a loud blast.”




                           With.Flower.&.Star

[Illustration]


[Illustration]

    beau ti ful          lil y            dai sy           (sw eet)
     blos soms                            ap ple             f eet
       fair            (cl ose)           gar den           (k ite)
     fair est            r ose             done             wh ite

[Illustration]


                                THE ROSE

 The beautiful summer is here again.
 We have done with the winter, the snow and rain;
 The flowers grow bright by the garden wall,
 And the rose is the fairest one of all.

[Illustration]

 The apple tree blossoms are fair and sweet,
 And the bright-eyed daisy that grows at its feet.
 The lilies white are fair and tall,
 But the rose is the fairest flower of all.


                          THE BEAUTIFUL GARDEN


 Long ago there was a beautiful garden.
 Fair blossoms grew in this garden.
 An old apple tree grew there.
 It grew by the wall.
 In the spring it was beautiful.
 It was covered with blossoms.
 In the fall it was covered with apples.
 A little daisy grew at its feet.
 Her eye was bright and shining.
 She closed it at night.
 But all day she looked up and was glad.
 Daisy loved the beautiful garden.
 A tall lily grew in the garden.
 She was sweet and white.

[Illustration]

 Close beside her grew a rose.
 The sweet flowers loved their home.
 They were glad all spring.
 They blossomed all summer.
 In the fall the cold wind came to the beautiful garden.
 He blew and blew and blew!
 “Summer is done,” he said.
 “Time to go to sleep, sweet flowers.
 Close your eye, Daisy.
 Sleep, Rose and Lily.”
 The little flowers went to sleep.
 The old apple tree saw them.
 “Time for me to sleep, too,” she said.
 “Come, wind, blow my leaves away.
 I do not want them now.
 Cover the flowers with them.
 They might be cold in the winter.”
 The wind blew all the leaves from the old apple tree.
 He covered Rose, Daisy, and Lily.
 “Now go to sleep, old tree,” he said.
 “The beautiful blossoms are all covered with your leaves.
 They will not be cold.
 So sleep, old apple tree.
 Sleep till spring comes back again.”

               (d ear)                              warm
                h ear                               buds
                n ear                               many


                          THE GARDEN IN WINTER

 It is winter.
 The garden is covered with snow.
 Many sweet flowers sleep under the cold white snow.
 Daisy is asleep under the apple tree.
 Lily sleeps near her.
 Rose sleeps near Lily.
 They are covered with warm leaves.
 The old apple tree is sleeping.
 All her buds are sleeping, too.
 In the spring they will wake.
 Now they are covered with snow.
 The snow covers the flowers, too.
 They are safe and warm.
 For many days they will sleep.
 All winter they will rest.
 Then spring will come.
 The warm days will come again.
 Robin will sing to the flowers.
 All the buds and flowers will wake.
 They will hear the robin’s song.
 They will look up.
 They will be glad.
 They will say, “The warm spring days have come back.”
 All the buds will blossom.
 The garden will be beautiful again.

          (the)                 (c ould)                 (d one)
         the se                  w ould                   n one
          f elt                  (r un)                  (f eed)
        m elt ing                 s un                  in d eed


                         ROSE, DAISY, AND LILY

 Rose, Daisy, and Lily grow in a beautiful garden.
 These three grow side by side.
 They are not alone.
 Many other flowers are growing all around them.
 But none are as beautiful as Rose.
 None are as bright-eyed as Daisy.
 None are as fair as Lily.

[Illustration]

 “Good morning, Rose,” says Daisy.
 “Where were you all winter?”
 “I was down under the white snow, sound asleep.”
 “And so was I,” says Lily.
 “And where have you been, Daisy?”
 “Indeed, I do not know.
 I think I must have been asleep, too.
 When I waked, the sun was shining.
 It was shining brightly all around.
 I felt the warm wind blowing over me.
 I saw the snow melting away.
 I was glad.
 I knew summer would soon be here.
 Look! There is little Violet now.
 See, she is blossoming.
 I must stop. My leaves are growing.
 My buds are coming. Good-by.”

[Illustration]

          full                  dart ing                 (r ain)
          music                                          pl ain
       wood lands                                         busy


                            THE SPRING TIME

 Now the days are full of music!
 All the birds are back again;
 In the tree-tops, in the meadows,
 In the woodlands, on the plain.

 See them darting through the sunshine!
 Hear them singing loud and clear!
 How they love the busy spring time—
 Sweetest time of all the year!


                           TOM AND THE BIRDS


 One morning Tom ran to mother.
 “Mother, mother!” he called.
 “The springtime has come!”
 “How do you know?” said mother.
 “The birds have come back,” said Tom.
 “I saw so many in the garden!
 They are singing their sweetest songs.
 Come and hear them, mother.
 The garden is full of music!
 Do come, mother!”
 Mother and Tom went into the garden.
 Robins were calling from the tree-top.
 Bluebirds were darting around.
 They were darting in the sunshine.
 All were singing their sweetest songs.
 They seemed to say, “It is time all nests were made.”
 They were so busy and glad.
 All wanted new nests.
 Robin’s nest was in the apple tree.
 Blue-bird’s nest was near it.
 How glad they all were!
 The garden was full of music.
 “I love the springtime,” said Tom.
 “I love to hear the birds sing.”
 “Hear their glad songs,” said mother.
 “See them darting in the sunshine!
 See how busy they are!
 We must be busy like the birds.
 We must be glad, too.”

        be cause                an swered                 gone
         (s oon)              dan de li on                live
          m oon                                          al ways

[Illustration]


                                THE STAR

 A little star lived away up in sky-land.
 At night it looked down at the trees.
 It peeped under the leaves.
 It looked into the birds’ nest.
 It looked long at the sweet flowers.
 The little star liked them best of all.
 It was always shining on them.
 It was always trying to wake them.
 One night Mother Moon saw the little star looking down.
 “Bright star,” said she, “why are you always shining on the flowers?”
 “Because I love them so, mother.
 I should like to go and live with them always,” answered the star.
 “Do you not love me, little star?”
 “Yes, mother dear, I do love you.”
 “Do you not love the other stars?”
 “Yes, I love you all, but I love the dear flowers best.”
 “Then why do you not go to them?” said the sad Mother Moon.
 “I will, I will; good-by, good-by,” said the star.
 In the morning this little star was gone from the sky.
 But a beautiful dandelion was growing in the meadow.

[Illustration]

    quietly        happy         heard        friends        asked

[Illustration]


                        THE DANDELION’S FRIENDS

 Bright-eyed Daisy grew in the meadow.
 All day she looked up at the sky.
 It was so bright and blue.
 She saw the sun shining.
 She heard the birds singing.
 But at night she would close her eye and sleep quietly.
 Blue Violet grew in the meadow, too.
 She did not always sleep at night.
 She looked up into the sky.
 She saw a bright star shining there.
 She wanted the star to come to her.

 One morning Violet and Daisy found a dandelion growing near them.

[Illustration]

 “Where did you come from, Dandelion?” they asked.

[Illustration]

 “I was a star,” answered Dandelion.
 “I lived in sky-land.
 All the long nights through I looked down at you in the meadow.
 You looked so sweet and happy here!
 I grew to love you dearly.
 And I wanted to come down and live with you. So here I am.
 Are you glad to see me?
 Do you want me to go back to the sky, bright Daisy?
 Will you let me stay with you here always, sweet Violet?”
 “Stay always,” said Daisy and Violet.

[Illustration]




                           At·Christmas·Tide

[Illustration]


[Illustration]


                               WHO IS IT?


 Who is it comes with his reindeer,
 Over the ice and snow,
 With a sleigh just full of good things?
 Tell me if you know.
 Just listen to his sleigh bells!
 They are ringing out so clear,
 And they tell us as we listen,
 That Santa Claus is near.

[Illustration]

       (is)             sleigh          Santa Claus         (m ust)
       h is             lis ten          rein deer           j ust
        ice                                                   us

         al most                   big                    h ush
          hark                   (s aw)                 r ush ing
                                  dr aw


                              SANTA CLAUS

 Hush! hark! I hear sleigh bells!
 Listen and you will hear them.
 They are ringing out so clear.
 They say, “Some one is coming.”
 Who can it be? I think I know.
 He has a big sleigh.
 It is just full of good things.
 There is something for you and me.
 Little reindeer draw this sleigh.
 They come rushing, bounding over the ice and snow.

[Illustration]

 They are coming near, near, nearer!
 Hear the bells, loud, loud, louder!
 They must be almost here.
 Now do you know who is coming?
 Who is coming in his big sleigh?
 Who is bounding over ice and snow?
 Who brings a sleigh full of good things?
 Tell me if you know.

        Christmas                (st ar)                  world
          house                   f ar                  chimneys
                                   bed


                          WHO IS SANTA CLAUS?

_Tom_: Christmas will soon be here.

_Baby_: Christmas? What is Christmas?

_Tom_: Why, Baby! Christmas is the time Santa Claus comes.

_Baby_: Who is Santa Claus?

_Tom_: He is the friend of all good girls and boys.

_Baby_: Where does he live?

_Tom_: He lives in a cold land far away from here.

Santa Claus comes in a big sleigh.

Little reindeer draw his sleigh.

_Baby_: Did you see him, Tom?

_Tom_: No, he comes when all the boys and girls are asleep.

He comes down the chimneys.

_Baby_: Why does he come down the chimneys?

_Tom_: To bring something to all the boys and girls.

_Baby_: Will he bring something to us?

_Tom_: He will bring something good.

_Baby_: What will he bring, Tom?

_Tom_: You will know in the morning.

         (k ept)                (t ire d)                (d id)
         cr ept                   f ire                   h id
         (r ock)                 (l oud)                  hung
       st ock ing               cl oud s                 be fore


                       THE NIGHT BEFORE CHRISTMAS

 It was the night before Christmas.
 Baby hung up her stocking.
 She hung it by the big fire-place.
 Tom hung his there, too.
 “Come, Baby,” said Tom.
 “We must go to bed.
 You know who comes to-night.”
 Then they crept quietly away to bed.
 They lay so still, listening, listening.
 But not a sound could be heard.

[Illustration]

 What did they think they would hear?
 Soon their tired little eyes were closing.
 They were fast asleep.
 Outside it was cold, so cold.
 Ice was all around.
 Wind was blowing; snow was flying.
 Cold clouds hid the blue sky.
 Yet over all moon and stars were shining brightly.

[Illustration]

 At last the moon peeped out.
 She peeped through the cold clouds.
 She looked far down at the cold world.
 Her rays fell upon a beautiful sight.
 There was dear old Santa Claus with sleigh and reindeer.
 They were flying from house to house.
 They were rushing over ice and snow.
 Down the chimneys Santa went.
 In one house he found two stockings.
 They hung side by side.
 They hung by the fire-place.
 We know who hung them there.
 Santa filled them full as they could hold.
 He filled them up to the very top.
 “Good!” said Santa, “good!
 How glad Tom and Baby will be!
 They have just what they want!”
 Back up the chimney Santa went.
 Into his big sleigh he jumped.
 “Get up, get up, reindeer!”
 Then away and away they flew!
 So they kept on leaving their good things all the night through.

[Illustration]

          ought                   (out)                  (w ood)
        br ought                 sh out                   h ood
          (ice)                    our                   (b ed)
          n ice                   kind                    sl ed
          quick                                           doll


                         THE DOLL AND THE SLED


 It was night.
 Santa had gone up the chimney.
 A new sled was by Tom’s stocking.
 It was a bright red sled.
 “Are you awake, doll?” called the sled.
 “I am,” answered the doll.
 “Where are you?” asked the sled.
 “Here, in this stocking,” said the doll.
 The sled looked up.
 There was a dear little doll peeping out of Baby’s stocking.
 “Well, here we are in our new home,” said the doll.
 “How do you like it?”
 “It is a good home,” said the sled.
 “I think we should be happy here.
 Santa brought me to the little boy who lives in this house.
 I think I will like him.
 I know he will like me.
 I am so bright and new.”
 “He ought to like you,” said the doll.
 “You are a nice sled.
 You are so bright and new.
 I am for a dear little girl.
 Santa calls her Baby.
 He says she will be kind to me.
 He says she will love me.
 Do you think she will?
 I know I will love her.
 Santa brought her a new hood.
 It is such a warm little hood!”
 “Hush!” said the sled.
 “Quick! Get back into the stocking!
 I hear some one coming!”
 “Who can it be?” asked the doll.
 “I think it is mother,” said the sled.
 “Oh, dear,” said the doll.
 “It may be Tom or Baby.”
 “No,” answered the sled.
 “They will not come till morning.
 They are in their beds.
 They are asleep now.
 Hush! Be quiet.
 Some one is coming near.”
 The doll crept back into the stocking.
 The sled lay down, too.
 How quiet they were!
 Mother came in.
 She made a light.
 Then she looked around.
 She saw the new sled.
 It lay close to Tom’s stocking.
 She looked into Baby’s stocking.
 She saw the new doll.
 She saw the new hood.
 She saw many other things.
 But not a sound did she hear.
 “Santa has been here,” she said.
 Then she went away quietly.
 All was quiet till Christmas morning.

[Illustration]

                                   off                   smiles
         (d oll)                 (fee t)                 (k ind)
        f oll ows                 fee l                   m ind
         (th ey)                  (up)                  (fl ies)
         o b ey                   c up                   cr ies


                           CHRISTMAS MORNING

 Christmas morning is here.
 Tom and Baby awake.
 “Mother, mother,” they cry, “has Santa Claus been here?
 What did he leave for us?
 Let’s go look in our stockings quick!”

[Illustration]

 “Come, Baby, we can feel our way.”
 Away they rush to the fire-place.
 Mother follows fast with a light.
 “Look, mother, look! a sled, a top, a horn, candy.
 So many good things!” shouts Tom.
 “See this lovely doll,” cries Baby.
 “And here is a warm hood, a big book, and a cup.
 My! how many things dear old Santa brought us!”
 “Did you know Santa had been here, mother?” asks Tom.
 “Did you think he would bring us so many nice things?
 I have just what I wanted.”

[Illustration]

 “And so have I,” says Baby.
 Mother just smiles sweetly and says:
 “Santa Claus has been very kind to you.
 I know he thinks you ought to be good.
 He will want you to obey mother.”
 “We will do that,” says Baby.
 “Indeed we will mind you always.”
 “That makes me so glad!” says mother.
 “It will make Santa glad, too.”
 All three are very happy this beautiful Christmas morning.
 The sun is just peeping over the hills.
 Mother goes to get breakfast.
 Tom and Baby are kept busy with their new play-things.

      (p eep)           (other)           (s un)             coat
       d eep           an other            f un               tip
      st eep           children                               put


                          PLAYING IN THE SNOW

 “Come quick! See the snow!
 See the snow!” cries Tom.
 “Mother, may we go out and play?
 May we take our sleds with us?
 May we take the ones Santa Claus brought us?
 Do say we may go, Mother.”
 “Yes, children,” answers mother.
 “You may play in the white snow.
 You may take your Christmas sleds.
 Come, I will put on your warm coats.”

[Illustration]

 “Where is my nice hood?” asks Baby.
 “I will bring it to you,” answers Tom.
 “How warm it is!”
 What fun they have in the deep snow!
 They are almost covered with it.
 Just hear them shout!
 How they make the snow fly!
 Up the steep hill they run.
 They draw their sleds after them.
 Then down they slide.
 They ought to look out for the sleighs.
 Their sleds go very fast.
 Sometimes the sleds tip over and throw them into the snow.
 But they do not care.
 It is all fun for them.
 Now they are making a snow man.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

 He is made of big balls of snow.
 What a big tall man!
 See them throw snow balls at him!
 “Come, children,” calls mother.
 “It is time to come in now.
 Come, take off your things by the fire.
 Another day you may play out again.
 You may play with your sleds.”




                           In·Garden·& Meadow

[Illustration]


[Illustration]

      bur ied            plant             voice          won der ful


                            THE LITTLE PLANT

 In the heart of a seed
   Buried deep, so deep,
 A dear little plant
   Lay fast asleep.

 “Wake!” said the sunshine,
   “And creep to the light.”
 “Wake!” said the voice
   Of the raindrops bright.

 The little plant heard
   And it rose to see
 What the wonderful
   Outside world might be.
             —KATE LOUISE BROWN.

      (with)             (is)             (h ark)           (k ind)
      with er            ’t is             d ark           be h ind


                                BE GLAD

 Is it raining, little flower?
   Be glad of rain.
 Too much sun would wither thee;
   ’Twill shine again.

 The clouds are very dark,
   ’Tis true;
 But right behind them
   Shines the blue.

                  *       *       *       *       *

 Butterfly, butterfly, you’re a fairy bright,
 Flying high, flying low, in the summer light.

[Illustration]

        searching                 cried                   honey


                          THE FAIRY BUTTERFLY

 It was a glad summer day.
 May was playing in the meadow.
 Something flew near.
 “What a beautiful butterfly!” she cried.
 “What shining bright wings it has!”
 The butterfly flew nearer.
 May crept close to it.
 “Oh, it is not a butterfly!
 What can it be?” she cried.
 “Oh, it is a dear little fairy!
 Stop and play, dear fairy,” she cried.
 But the fairy flew away.
 She was too busy to stop.
 She was searching for honey.

[Illustration]

          work                    among                (m ead ow)
          lift                                            h ead


                      THE BUTTERFLY IN THE GARDEN

 One day I saw a beautiful butterfly.
 She was in the garden.
 She was flying among the flowers.
 She was playing with them.
 “Good morning, beautiful butterfly!
 Good morning,” said I again.
 But the butterfly made no answer.
 “Good morning, little fairy,” said I.
 But the butterfly just went on playing.
 She seemed to be searching for honey.
 She flew in and out among the flowers.
 The butterfly loves the flowers.
 And the flowers all love the butterfly.
 She flies from flower to flower, now high, now low.

[Illustration]

 She flies this way and that way.
 She likes the sweet bright flowers best of all.
 These give the butterfly honey.
 They seem to lift their heads when she comes.
 The butterfly works very little.
 She plays almost all the time.
 Would you like to play always?
 Would you like to be a butterfly?

          (in)                    shone                  (c ame)
          th in                   waits                   n ame
                                                         sto ry

[Illustration]


                            THE LITTLE FAIRY

 A dear little fairy lives in a garden.
 The garden is full of beautiful flowers.
 The fairy has lived there all summer.
 Fairies always live among flowers.
 Did you not know that?
 This fairy is very beautiful.
 Her thin wings are bright and shining.

 All day she flies from flower to flower.
 Is she telling them some sweet story?
 What do you think she says?
 This is what the fairy is saying.
 Listen if you want to hear.
 “The blue violet is sweet.
 The lily is white and tall.
 The daisy’s eye is bright.
 But the rose is the fairest of all.”

[Illustration]

 Some nights this fairy creeps into the tall white lily.
 There she clings through the night.
 She holds on very fast.
 She does not feel the cold wind.
 Other nights she rests in a red rose.
 She is buried out of sight.
 There she waits for the morning.
 She hears the voice of the wind.
 The wind blows among the flowers.
 It rocks the fairy’s flower cradle.
 The stars shine down on her.
 She drops asleep.
 She sleeps all the long night.
 What a wonderful fairy she is!
 What name do we call her?

 Can you tell me?
 Yes, that is right.
 It is fairy butterfly.

[Illustration]

 Sleep, little fairy, sleep and rest,
 Of all the flowers, Rose loves you best.

        (sh one)                 (d own)                 (s ee)
         st one                   g own                  gr ee n

[Illustration]


                             THE WHITE LILY

 A tall white lily grew in a beautiful garden.
 Her home was near the old stone wall.
 Her gown was white and shining green.
 May cared for Lily.
 She kept the ground soft.

[Illustration]

 Lily seemed to know that May loved her.
 She lifted her head and smiled at the girl.
 One day the sun shone.
 O how warm it grew!
 Lily could not lift up her head.
 “Dear rain,” she cried.
 “Do come to the garden.
 We want you.
 Come, kind friend.
 Come before all the sweet flowers wither.”
 The rain heard Lily’s call.

[Illustration]

 “I am coming,” he cried.
 “Lift up your head.
 I will be with you soon, dear Lily.”
 The bright raindrops fell to the ground.
 Faster and faster and faster they came.
 A soft wind blew.
 Lily lifted her cup.
 The rain filled it.
 How glad she was!
 “Thank you, dear rain,” she said.
 “Now I am happy again.
 My gown looks new.
 How kind you are!”

     (lea ves)          (k ept)           (b ig)            (h ung)
       lea f            sl ept             tw ig            cl ung
  cat er pil lar                                           o pen ed


                            THE CATERPILLAR

 A caterpillar rested on a lily leaf.
 He lay there very still.
 He was very big and very green.
 “Go away,” cried the lily, “go away!
 I do not like caterpillars.”
 “I am so tired,” said the caterpillar. “I can not go away.
 Let me rest.
 I am so sleepy.
 Do let me stay.
 I will be very still.”

[Illustration]

 “No! No! Go away,” said the lily.
 “You must go away.
 You may not stay.
 I will not have you.”
 The caterpillar fell from the lily leaf.
 In his fall he kept hold of a little twig.
 There he clung fast.
 He was tired, so very tired.
 He spun a little coat around him.
 Then he fell asleep.
 All winter he slept there soundly.
 In the spring the bright sun shone warm.
 Its rays fell on the caterpillar’s coat.

[Illustration]

 The caterpillar’s coat opened.
 And what do you think came out?
 A caterpillar? No! No! No!
 A wonderful thing! A beautiful butterfly!
 What shining, bright wings!
 How it flew among the flowers!
 It came flying to the lily.
 The lily said, “Come, beautiful butterfly, come to my sweet blossoms!
 Rest on me—I love you, butterfly!
 You are so bright and beautiful!”

 But the butterfly answered, “When I was a caterpillar, you did not want
    me.
 You would not let me rest on you then.
 You said you did not like caterpillars.
 You would not let me stay.
 Now I will not stay with you.
 I will go to the red rose.
 Good-by, lily; you are fair but cold.”

[Illustration]

         (h im)                   grass                  (f air)
        d im pled                                        h  air

[Illustration]


                             THE DANDELION

 O dandelion yellow as gold,
   What do you do all day?

 I just wait here in the tall green grass
   Till the children come to play.

 O dandelion yellow as gold,
   What do you do all night?

 I wait and wait till the cool dews fall
   And my hair grows long and white.

[Illustration]

 And what do you do when your hair is white
   And the children come to play?

 They take me up in their dimpled hands
   And blow my hair away.

     or chard           fields            (over)            car ry
     weath er           vis it            cl over            hive
      gath er            snug              buzz              store

[Illustration]


                                THE BEE

 “Buzz, buzz,” said the bee,
   “I have much work to do,
 The garden and orchard
   I must search through and through.

 I must visit the meadows
   And fields of red clover,
 And search them for honey
   Over and over.

[Illustration]

 To the hive I must carry
   My honey with care,
 And store it away
   While the weather is fair.

 For soon will come winter,
   The ice and the snow,
 And round our snug bee-hive
   The cold winds will blow.

 Buzz, buzz, little children,
   Keep out of my way;
 I must gather and store
   All I can this bright day.”

         (h eat)                 (work)                 (st ore)
           eat                   work er                  m ore

[Illustration]


                              THE BUSY BEE

 Hear the bee.
 “Buzz, buzz,” he says.
 “Keep out of my way!
 I can’t stop for you.”
 He is a busy worker.
 When the weather is fair he is busy all day.
 He flies through garden and orchard.
 He visits all the sweet flowers.
 He is searching for honey.
 All little flowers are glad to have him come to them.
 The red clover has more honey than many other flowers.
 So the bee and the clover are friends.
 The bee gathers honey from all the sweet flowers.
 He gathers all he can carry.
 Then he flies away.
 Over the fields he goes to his hive.
 There he stores his honey with care.
 He knows the cold winter is coming.
 Then he can gather no honey.
 There will be no flowers in the fields.
 The cold winter winds will blow.

[Illustration]

 Snow will cover fields and flowers.
 But the little bee will be happy.
 He will be safe in his snug hive.
 There he will keep snug and warm.
 Now he can eat his store of honey.
 He can eat all he wants.
 He will be glad he worked in summer.
 He will be glad of his snug warm hive.
 He can sleep and rest waiting for another summer.
 When it comes he will be busy again.


                        WHY THE CLOVER IS SWEET


 A little fairy flew to a daisy.
 “Dear Daisy,” she said, “will you give me some honey?”
 “No, go away,” said the daisy.
 The fairy flew away to a rose.
 “Beautiful Rose,” she said, “will you give me some honey?”
 “You may have just a little,” answered the rose.
 “Thank you,” said the fairy.
 “I do not care for your honey.”
 Away she flew to the clover.
 “Little Clover,” she said, “will you give me some honey?”

 “Indeed I will, dear Fairy.
 Take all that you want.”
 “Thank you,” said the fairy.
 “Now I will be kind to you.
 Hereafter you will have more honey than any other flower.”
 And from that day, the clover has been sweet with honey.

[Illustration: THE END]




                               VOCABULARY


Most of the words used in the Aldine Primer are used frequently in this
First Reader. The Primer words are not listed in this vocabulary,
however; here are given only the words used for the first time in this
book.

The number at the left of a word refers to the page on which the story
begins in which that word is first used. New words are listed in the
text immediately before or after the lesson in which they are used; they
are listed after the lesson when they occur in rhymes to be memorized
(see Teacher’s Manual), before the lesson in all other cases. Words of
series that have already been studied (see Teacher’s Manual) are not
usually listed in the text, but are given in this vocabulary.

      A

  26. all

  98. almost

  40. alone

  68. along

  88. always

 125. among

 115. another

  88. answered

  75. apple

  15. as

  91. asked

      B

  55. babies

  17. baby

  34. back

 115. ball

  15. be

  75. beautiful

  88. because

 100. bed

 140. bee

  52. been

 102. before

 122. behind

  97. bell

   6. best

  98. big

  18. birdies

  72. blast

  30. blew

  75. blossom

 111. book

  11. bough

  98. bounding

  58. bread

  26. break

  11. breakfast

  62. bright

  68. brother

 106. brought

  80. bud

 121. buried

  85. busy

  18. but

 123. butterfly

 140. buzz

  58. by

      C

 115. call

  52. called

      came

 111. candy

  43. care

 140. carry

 134. caterpillar

 115. children

 100. chimney

       Christmas

  68. clear

 127. cling

  55. close

 102. cloud

 140. clover

 134. clung

 115. coat

  30. could

  40. crack

  26. cradle

 121. creep

 102. crept

 123. cried

 111. cries

 110. crowned

 111. cry

       cup

      D

  75. daisy

  88. dandelion

 122. dark

  85. darting

   6. dear

 115. deep

 138. dew

  66. did

 138. dimpled

  47. do

 106. doll

  75. done

  25. doth

  26. down

  98. draw

 121. drop

      E

  25. east

 142. eat

  15. egg

  55. eye

      F

  75. fair

      fairest

 122. fairy

  26. fall

 100. far

 130. fed

  11. feed

 111. feel

  75. feet

 134. fell

  82. felt

 140. field

 102. filled

      fire

  30. flew

  38. flies

  21. flower

 111. follow

  47. found

  91. friend

  85. full

 115. fun

      G

  75. garden

 140. gather

  58. gave

  11. get

 138. gold

  88. gone

  82. good-by

 138. grass

 130. green

  30. grew

  21. grow

      H

  52. had

 138. hair

      hand

  91. happy

  98. hark

  58. has

  68. hat

  25. have

 125. head

  80. hear

  91. heard

  25. heart

  38. her

  14. here

 102. hid

  33. hide

  15. high

 115. hill

  97. his

 140. hive

 102. hold

 123. honey

 106. hood

 100. house

  26. how

 102. hung

  98. hush

      I

  97. ice

  82. indeed

      J

  97. just

      K

 140. keep

 102. kept

 106. kind

  66. kite

  47. know

      L

  88. land

  43. last

 121. lay

 134. leaf

  28. leaves

  38. let

 125. lift

  62. light

  15. like

  75. lilie

       lily

  97. listen

  88. live

  52. longed

  38. longer

  72. loud

   6. love

 122. low

      M

  18. made

 111. make

  95. man

  80. many

 115. may

  82. melting

  62. might

 111. mind

  88. moon

 142. more

  38. mother

  85. music

  33. must

      N

 127. name

  80. near

 106. nice

  62. night

  34. no

  82. none

  21. not

      O

 138. O

  15. oak

 111. obey

 115. off

  15. old

  28. one

 134. opened

 140. orchard

 106. ought

      our

  34. out

 121. outside

      P

   6. place

  85. plain

 121. plant

  47. pussy

 115. put

      Q

 106. quick

  91. quietly

      R

  40. ran

 102. ray

 127. red

  11. redbreast

  97. reindeer

  17. rest

  62. right

  97. ringing

  11. robin

  17. rock

      rock-a-bye

  75. rose

  98. rushing

      S

  15. safe

  17. safely

  28. said

  97. Santa Claus

  30. saw

 123. searching

 121. seed

  43. seek

  68. seem

  43. shade

  38. she

  55. shining

 127. shone

  55. should

 106. shout

  58. side

  68. sight

  15. sky

 106. sled

  97. sleigh

 138. slept

 115. slide

 111. smile

 140. snug

  17. so

 115. sometimes

  18. soon

  82. sound

 134. spun

  55. star

  34. stay

 115. steep

 102. still

      stocking

 130. stone

  33. stop

 140. store

 127. story

  66. string

  38. stronger

  34. summer

  82. sun

  85. sunshine

  26. sway

  47. sweet

      T

 138. take

   3. tail

  58. thank

  25. that

  26. their

  34. them

  21. then

  82. these

 127. thin

  97. thing

  47. think

       this

   3. three

  55. through

 115. throw

  62. tight

  38. till

  58. time

  15. tiny

 115. tip

  52. tired.

 122. ’tis

  66. Tom

  14. too

  18. top

      tree-top

 134. twig

 122. ’twill

  30. two

      U

  97. us

      V

  47. very

      violet

 140. visit

 121. voice

      W

 127. wait

  75. wall

  80. warm

  50. was

  25. way

  21. we

 140. weather

  47. well

  66. went

  30. were

  25. west

       whichever

  75. white

  40. why

  11. will

  47. willow

  38. wing

  40. winter

 122. wither

 121. wonderful

  85. woodland

 125. work

 142. worker

 100. world

  82. would

      Y

  85. year

 103. yet


[Illustration: VAN REES PRESS NEW YORK]

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                          TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES


 1. Silently corrected typographical errors and variations in spelling.
 2. Archaic, non-standard, and uncertain spellings retained as printed.
 3. Enclosed italics font in _underscores_.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE ALDINE READERS: A FIRST
READER ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
